BUY
Taking a position by buying shares in a company

SELL
Selling shares you own, usually done when an oportunity to take profitss is seen e.g. stock rising in price

BID
A trader offers to buy shares. Usually at a certain price.

ASK
A trader offers their shares at a certain price.

SPREAD
Related to the bid and ask. 
It is the highest price someone is willing to bid and the lowest someone is willing to sell shares.

BULL MARKET
When the stock prices keep rising, assimilating the movement a bull does.

BEAR MARKET
Opposite of bull market. Stock prices falling. 
Many or lokking to sell or less willing to buy stocks, causing the price to drop. 

LIMIT ORDER
A type of stock market order that provides instruction to only execute at a certain price.
For example, a trader could place a limit buy order to purchase 100 shares of a stock at $10.20.
The broker will attempt to buy 100 shares at a price of $10.20 or less.

MARKET ORDER
This stock market order provides instruction to buy or sell as quickly as possible, at whatever price is currently available.

DAY ORDER
With this market order, if it isn’t filled during the day, it’s automatically canceled at the market close.

VOLATILITY
The statistical measure of how much a stock moves up or down.
Stocks that move up and down wildly are known as volatile stocks.

LIQUIDITY
The measure of how easy it is to buy and sell a stock.
If a lot of buyers and sellers are actively trading stock, you’ll generally find it easier to enter and exit a position.
The stock is more liquid.

TRADING VOLUME
The number of shares being traded at any time.
More trading volume means more liquidity, and traders can more easily enter and exit positions.

GOING LONG
When going long, you purchase stock shares hoping to profit from an increase in the stock price.

GOING SHORT
When a trader tries to profit from a stock’s dropping price.
Short sellers borrow shares from a broker, sell them, and hope the stock price declines. 
Then they buy the shares back and return them to the broker.

MARKET CAPITALIZATION
Market capitalization is the total value of all a company’s shares.

OUTSTANDING SHARES
This is the total number of a company’s shares.

IPO
IPO stands for initial public offering.
It’s when a company goes through the process of selling shares on the stock market for the first time.

SECONDARY OFFERING
A company may raise money by offering shares, even after the company’s shares are traded on a stock exchange. 
This is called a secondary offering.

BLUE-CHIP STOCKS
These are large, stable, well-known companies. A good example is Amazon(AMZN).

FOREX
Forex is short for foreign exchange. 
The term refers to the global trading of currencies in a way similar to the way stocks are traded.

HEDGE FUNDS
A hedge fund is a type of investment fund that often uses non-standard investment and trading techniques.

MUTUAL FUNDS
A mutual fund is a type of investment in which your money is pooled together with that of other shareholders. 
This gives you the benefit of owning shares in a collection of investments you may not have been able to afford as an individual.

INDEX FUNDS
An index fund is designed to match and mimic the performance of a financial market index
Similar to mutual funds, an index fund allows you to invest in a pool of money to purchase assets in the stock market
Index funds match the risks and returns of the stock market, which can be beneficial for long-term investments
For example the S&P 500 is a stock market index tracking the performance of 500 large companies listed on stock exchanges in the United States.
It is one of the most commonly followed equity indices.

ETFs
Short for exchange-traded fund. ETFs are similar to mutual funds — they’re pools of capital used for investment purposes.
But instead of wiring your money into the fund, you can purchase shares of the ETF on a stock exchange.

ADR
ADRs allow traders to buy and sell overseas stocks on U.S. stock exchanges.

BETA
A measure of a stock’s performance compared to the broader market. Beta can help traders assess the risk of holding a stock.

STOCKBROKER
An agent that allows traders to buy and sell stocks.

DAY TRADING
The practice of entering and exiting stock trades within a single day.
For example, if you purchase a stock in the morning and sell it in the afternoon, you’ve day traded.

DIVIDENDS
This is when a company pays a portion of its earnings to its shareholders. 
Long-term investors and retirees generally focus on dividends.

STOCK EXCHANGE
A stock exchange is an entity where stocks are bought and sold. 
The most well-known stock exchanges are the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the Nasdaq.

MARGIN
Margin is when traders borrow money to trade shares. 
With margin, you can make money and lose money faster.

MOVING AVERAGE
A common technical indicator traders use on stock charts to see a stock’s price trend.
The moving average is an average of the stock price over a certain period.
For example, the 20-day moving average is calculated by taking the price of the stock on each of the prior 20 days, then finding the average 

PRICE QUOTE
A price quote is a stock’s price at a certain point in time.
Traders will often want up-to-date price quotes to better analyze stocks and find decent trading set-ups.

SECTORS
The stock market is made up of shares of companies in different industries and niches. These are called sectors.

STOCK SYMBOL
A unique collection of letters and/or numbers that represent a stock. 
Amazon, for example, trades on the Nasdaq under the symbol AMZN.

DIVIDEND YIELD
This refers to the size of a company’s dividend compared with the price of its stock.
